.TH "sip-options" 1 "8 Dec 2008" "Version 1.12.10" "sofia-sip-utils" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
sip-options \- Query SIP OPTIONS 
.SH "Synopsis"
.PP
\fCsip-options [OPTIONS] target-uri \fP
.SH "Description"
.PP
The \fIsip-options\fP utility sends a SIP OPTIONS request (or any other SIP request) to a SIP server.
.PP
The \fIsip-options\fP tool will print out status line and interesting headers from the response, excluding From, Via, Call-ID, and CSeq. The message body is also printed.
.SH "Options"
.PP
The \fIoptions\fP utility accepts following command line options: 
.IP "\fB-m url | --contact=url | --bind=url \fP" 1c
Specifies the SIP URL to which the \fIoptions\fP utility binds.  
.IP "\fB--1XX | -1 \fP" 1c
Print also preliminary responses. If this option is not present, preliminary responses are silently discarded.  
.IP "\fB--all | -a \fP" 1c
All SIP headers will be printed. If the --all option is given, the \fIoptions\fP utility also prints \fBFrom\fP, \fBVia\fP, \fBCall-ID\fP or \fBCSeq\fP headers.  
.IP "\fB--from=url \fP" 1c
Specifies the \fBFrom\fP header. Unless this option is used or the environment variable \fCSIPADDRESS\fP is set, local Contact URL is used as \fBFrom\fP header as well.  
.IP "\fB--mf=n \fP" 1c
Specify the initial Max-Forwards count (defaults to 70, stack default).  
.IP "\fB--method=s \fP" 1c
Specify the request method (defaults to OPTIONS).  
.IP "\fB--extra | -x/dt> \fP" 1c
Read extra headers (and optionally a message body) from the standard input  
.PP
.SH "Return Codes"
.PP
0when successful (a 2XX-series response is received) 1when unsuccessful (a 3XX..6XX-series response is received) 2initialization failure 
.SH "Examples"
.PP
You want to query supported features of sip:essip00net.nokia.com: 
.PP
.nf
 $ options sip:essip00net.nokia.com

.fi
.PP
.SH "Environment"
.PP
SIPADDRESS, sip_proxy, NTA_DEBUG, TPORT_DEBUG, TPORT_LOG.
.SH "Reporting Bugs"
.PP
Report bugs to <sofia-sip-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.SH "Author"
.PP
Written by Pekka Pessi <pekka -dot pessi -at- nokia -dot- com>
.SH "Copyright"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This program is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
