.TH "sip-dig" 1 "8 Dec 2008" "Version 1.12.10" "sofia-sip-utils" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
sip-dig \- Resolve SIP URIs. 
This is an example program for \fBsresolv\fP library in synchronous mode.
.PP
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Pekka Pessi <Pekka.Pessi@nokia.com>
.RE
.PP
\fBDate:\fP
.RS 4
Original Created: Tue Jul 16 18:50:14 2002 ppessi
.RE
.PP
.SH "Synopsis"
.PP
\fCsip-dig [OPTIONS] uri...\fP
.SH "Description"
.PP
The \fIsip-dig\fP utility resolves SIP URIs as described in \fCRFC 3263\fP. It queries NAPTR, SRV and A/AAAA records and prints out the resulting transport addresses.
.PP
The default transports are: UDP, TCP, SCTP, TLS and TLS-SCTP. The SIPS URIs are resolved using only TLS transports, TLS and TLS-SCTP. If not otherwise indicated by NAPTR or SRV records, the sip-dig uses UDP and TCP as transports for SIP and TLS for SIPS URIs.
.PP
The results are printed intended, with a preference followed by weight, then protocol name, port number and IP address in numeric format.
.SH "Command Line Options"
.PP
The \fIsip-dig\fP utility accepts following command line options: 
.IP "\fB-p \fIprotoname\fP  \fP" 1c
Use named transport protocol. The \fIprotoname\fP can be either well-known, e.g., 'udp', or it can specify NAPTR service and SRV identifier, e.g., 'tls-udp/SIPS+D2U/_sips._udp.'.  
.IP "\fB--udp \fP" 1c
Use UDP transport protocol.  
.IP "\fB--tcp \fP" 1c
Use TCP transport protocol.  
.IP "\fB--tls \fP" 1c
Use TLS over TCP transport protocol.  
.IP "\fB--sctp \fP" 1c
Use SCTP transport protocol.  
.IP "\fB--tls-sctp \fP" 1c
Use TLS over SCTP transport protocol.  
.IP "\fB--no-sctp \fP" 1c
Ignore SCTP or TLS-SCTP records in the list of default transports. This option has no effect if transport protocols has been explicitly listed.  
.IP "\fB-4 \fP" 1c
Query IP4 addresses (A records)  
.IP "\fB-6 \fP" 1c
Query IP6 addresses (AAAA records).  
.IP "\fB-v \fP" 1c
Be verbatim.  
.IP "\fB\fP" 1c
.PP
.SH "Return Codes"
.PP
0when successful (a 2XX-series response is received) 1when unsuccessful (a 3XX..6XX-series response is received) 2initialization failure 
.SH "Examples"
.PP
Resolve sip:openlaboratory.net, prefer TLS over TCP, TCP over UDP: 
.PP
.nf
 $ sip-dig --tls --tcp --udp sip:openlaboratory.net
        1 0.333 tls 5061 212.213.221.127
        2 0.333 tcp 5060 212.213.221.127
        3 0.333 udp 5060 212.213.221.127

.fi
.PP
.PP
Resolve sips:example.net with TLS over SCTP (TLS-SCTP) and TLS: 
.PP
.nf
 $ sip-dig -p tls-sctp --tls sips:example.net
        1 0.500 tls-udp 5061 172.21.55.26
        2 0.500 tls 5061 172.21.55.26

.fi
.PP
.SH "Environment"
.PP
SRESOLV_DEBUG, SRESOLV_CONF
.SH "Reporting Bugs"
.PP
Report bugs to <sofia-sip-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.SH "Author"
.PP
Written by Pekka Pessi <pekka -dot pessi -at- nokia -dot- com>
.SH "Copyright"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2006 Nokia Corporation.
.PP
This program is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
